An introduction to 1 Chronicles.
In the original Hebrew canon,
1 and 2 Chronicles
were apparently one volume,
which was later divided for convenience.
The writer of the entire volume
was evidently Ezra,
a priest and expert copyist of the Law.
He completed the work about 460 B.C.E.
Aside from the genealogies,
which go back to Adam,
1 Chronicles covers a period of 40 years,
from about 1077 to 1037 B.C.E.
The book can be divided into two sections.
The first 9 chapters deal largely
with genealogies;
the other 20 cover events
from the death of King Saul
to the end of David’s reign.
Chapters 2 to 4
list the descendants of Judah and David,
including the royal line.
Chapter 6 lists the descendants of Levi,
which includes the priestly line of Aaron.
Did you know?
The genealogies and history of 1 Chronicles
were important for the outworking
of God’s purpose.
The returning exiles needed them
so that Israel would be a theocratic nation
with a priesthood.
The early Christian writers Matthew and Luke
used the genealogies to show
that Jesus was the Son of David
with a legal right to the throne.
In chapter 11,
David is made king over all Israel.
Soon thereafter,
David captures the stronghold of Zion.
In chapters 15 and 16,
the ark of the covenant
is taken to the City of David
on the shoulders of the Kohathite Levites.
In chapter 17,
David expresses his desire
to build a temple for Jehovah.
However, Jehovah tells David through Nathan
that one of the king’s sons
will build the temple.
At the same time,
Jehovah reassures his beloved David
by promising to give him a lasting house,
or royal dynasty.
Chapters 18 to 20
record David’s victories over enemy nations,
including the Ammonites, Edomites,
Moabites, Philistines, and Syrians.
In chapter 21,
David is incited to number Israel.
David’s sin greatly displeases Jehovah
and costs the lives of 70,000 Israelites.
In chapters 22 to 28,
David makes extensive preparations
for the future temple.
In chapter 22,
he instructs his son Solomon
to build Jehovah’s house.
David contributes toward the project
100,000 talents of gold,
1,000,000 talents of silver,
and an immeasurable amount
of copper and iron.
In chapter 25,
David separates some of the sons
of the Levites Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun
to serve as temple musicians and singers.
In chapter 28,
David assembles the princes of Israel
in Jerusalem
and commands them:
“Carefully observe and search
for all the commandments
of Jehovah your God.”
Then he gives Solomon
the architectural plans for the temple,
which David received by divine inspiration.
In chapter 29,
Solomon becomes king
and David dies after reigning for 40 years.
As you read 1 Chronicles,
note how meticulously Ezra recorded
Israel’s history,
read how Jehovah blessed
his beloved servant David,
and see how the genealogies help to establish
that Jesus of Nazareth was the Messiah,
the future King of God’s Kingdom.